PLIP 11017: Tags MultiSelectionWidget w/scrollbar & checkboxes
==============================================================

PLIP ticket: http://dev.plone.org/plone/ticket/11017

Review by Craig Haynal (cah190@psu.edu, cah190 on irc)

The PLIP was reviewed on Mac OS X 10.6.5 using python 2.6.6 and Camino
2.0.6.


Review steps
------------

- Ran the plip11017-tag-selector-rmattb.cfg buildout.

- Ran tests for Products.Archetypes and plonetheme.sunburst.

- Ran bin/alltests.

- Created and examined a new Plone site to look for any obvious issues.

- Examined code.


Notes and observations
----------------------

- All Archetypes and sunburst tests pass.

- alltests results look normal.

- Long tag names are handled reasonably.

- The red X on the tag list is redundant, since the checkbox can
select/unselect tags.

- It might be nice if clicking on a tag in the tag list made the
corresponding tag visible in the selection list to make finding a
particular tag easier.

- Is there a way to make the selected tag list more compact?  The list
of selected tags can be substantially longer than the selection list if
a large number of tags are selected.  Do we need each tag on a separate
line when that's how they are presented in the selection list?

- The non-JavaScript behavior is reasonable, though it would be nice if
there were a way to not have the "Hover and type the first letter to
skip through tags" message displayed unless JavaScript is enabled? 
Perhaps the default text should describe the fallback behavior's use and
the JS code should hide that message and show the fancy UI message?

- It might be nice to indent the Select from existing tags and Create
and apply new tags boxes or otherwise set them off from the rest of the
controls in a way that makes it apparent they are all components of the
same widget and not separate fields.  The UI Team should probably look
at this aspect of the widget.

- Are there any new tests covering the new features of the keyword
widget template?

- The JS code is a bit large.

- keywordmultiselect.js needs a matching .metadata file to associate it
with HTTPCache.


Conclusion
----------

I think the UI Team should take a look at this PLIP.  The only major
problem is the missing .metadata file for the JS code.  Even as-is this
widget is enough of an improvement that I am +1 to merge.
