PLIP 10886: plone.app.event - new eventtype for plone 
=====================================================

PLIP ticket: http://dev.plone.org/plone/ticket/10886

Review by Craig Haynal (cah190@psu.edu, cah190 on irc)

The PLIP was reviewed on Mac OS X 10.6.5 using python 2.6.6 and Camino
2.0.6.


Review steps
------------

- Followed the instructions in plip10886-event-improvements.txt to run
the plip10886-event-improvements.cfg buildout.

- Ran tests for plone.app.event, plone.event,
plone.formwidget.recurrence, plone.app.jquerytools, plone.app.portlets,
Products.DateRecurringIndex, Products.ATContentTypes, and
archetypes.datetimewidget, Products.CMFPlone.

- Created and examined a new Plone site to look for any obvious issues.

- Examined code.


Notes and observations
----------------------

- A number of the products used in this PLIP require git; that will add
one more required tool to check out these products for development. 
Also, it appears that a github account is required to commit changes,
which adds another place developers will need to request commit access.

- plone.app.event has good test coverage.

- plone.event has a test failure in test testEventExporterFeed
(plone.event.tests.test_ical.ICalExportTests).

- plone.app.jquerytools has a failing test in test
/Volumes/Data/Users/cah190/src/plip10886/buildouts/src/plone.app.
jquerytools/plone/app/jquerytools/tests/ploneIntegration.txt

- Products.DateRecurringIndex has a failure in test
/Volumes/Data/Users/cah190/src/plip10886/buildouts/src/Products.
DateRecurringIndex/src/Products/DateRecurringIndex/index_timedelta.txt

- Products.CMFPlone has 2 failures and 2 errors, but they appear
unrelated.

- When adding or editing an Event object, entering any invalid data in
the date fields results in a traceback.

- The start/end date widget is awkward, requiring all fields other than
month to be entered numerically (month uses a drop-down listbox).  I
would rather see either all numerical entry fields, which may be
confusing given the various local date component ordering standards, or
all drop-down listboxes as in older version of Plone.

- Single-digit values in times appear in the edit form as single digits
rather than as the more typical zero-left-padded values, e.g. 8:08
appears as 8:8 on the form.

- Recurrences do work when entered in an appropriate form, but entering
an invalid recurrence results in a traceback.

- There is no recurrence widget beyond a simple textarea at present.  I
would at least like to see some directions and/or a link to directions
on how to define a recurrence if we are to even consider shipping
without the widget.

- Events in progress do not display in the Upcoming Events portlet (as
Plone 4.0.2 events do) e.g. an event that started 5 minutes ago and runs
for an hour does not appear in the portlet.

- vCal export looks reasonable.

- iCal export includes a line with "None" which may lead to failures
importing the iCal file.  Is some empty or non-existent field bleeding
through as "None"?

- Only the initial occurance of the event shows on the Events and
Calendar portlets; I would have expected to see as many as will fit in
the portlets.

- I wasn't clear on how the timezone support should operate, as events
don't indicate which timezone they are scheduled in and the edit form
does not appear to reflect the current timezone.

- There are a number of TODOs in the code.

- plone.app.event is redefining the start and end indices in the
portal_catalog to use DateRecurringIndex instead of DateIndex.  I worry
about compatibility with other products which rely on the start and end
indices, though DateRecurringIndex does claim to be a drop-in
replacement.  It seems like there should be more tests to ensure
compatibility with DateIndex is preserved.

- Overall, the code looks reasonable and most of the new components have
good tests.


Conclusion
----------

The new Event edit form needs to do server-side validation, though it
would also be good to have client-side validation.  The iCal export
should be examined in more detail for the source of None.  The Calendar
portlet should be updated to show recurring events.  Test failures
should be addressed.  We should have the UI team look at the date/time
entry fields.  I'm also a bit concerned about the changes to the start
and end indices.

This looks promising, but there are a number of shortcomings that should
be addressed before this PLIP is merged.  I am -1 for merging right now,
but if the aforementioned issues are worked out I will happily change my
vote.
