PLIP #10878 implementation notes (Add SiteAdmin role)
=====================================================

Implementer: David Glick
PLIP text: https://dev.plone.org/plone/ticket/10878

Reference buildout is at
https://svn.plone.org/svn/plone/buildouts/plone-coredev/branches/4.1; run with
-c plips/plip10878-siteadmin-role.cfg. This buildout is based on the PLIP 10776
buildout because the implementation depends on the role ZCML subdirective
introduced in Zope 2.13.  The failing tests when running bin/alltests are known
issues documented in Hanno's notes.

First I looked through the list of permissions that are included with Plone out
of the box, and determined which should be assigned to the SiteAdmin role in a
fresh Plone site. The list I determined is documented (and tested) in
CMFPlone/tests/testSiteAdminRole.py. My overall aim was to include permissions
related to managing content and exclude permissions related to management via
the ZMI. This involved some judgment calls, so I would anticipate a need for
slight adjustments to the set of SiteAdmin permissions.

I used two approaches to make this set of permissions a reality. For permissions
defined in "upstream" packages in the Zope repository, I updated the Plone
rolemap.xml to add the SiteAdmin role for these permissions when the Plone
profile is imported. (For existing sites, an upgrade step adds the SiteAdmin
role to all rolemap.xml permissions that have the Manager role, minus Manage
portal, plus some additional permissions that get the Manager role as a
Zope-wide default role.) For permissions defined in packages in the Plone,
archetypes, and collective repositories, I updated their Zope-wide default roles
to add SiteAdmin where appropriate (either using
Products.CMFCore.permissions.setDefaultRoles, or the new-in-Zope-2.13 role
subdirective of the permission ZCML directive).

I updated Plone's built-in workflows to assign the SiteAdmin role wherever the
Manager role is assigned. An upgrade step for existing sites updates ALL
workflows, doing the same. It also calls the workflow tool's recursive method to
update role mappings and reindex the allowedRolesAndUsers index.

I grepped through the codebase to find things protected by the 'Manage portal'
permission (which SiteAdmins cannot have) that should be accessible to
SiteAdmins. I then updated the following to use more specific permissions:

 - most Plone control panels (a unique permission for each one, so that the
   access given to SiteAdmins can easily be focused)

The following are still only accessible with the 'Manage portal' permission. In
some cases this is because they are still skin layer items (thus harder to
secure all at once like browser views) and not worth rewriting into browser
views:
 
 - the error log control panel
 - the kupu control panel (not worth updating; kupu is going away)
 - the collections control panel (not worth rewriting if we're switching to
   plone.app.collection)
 - removal of CMFDefault discussion items (not worth changing if we're updating
   to use plone.app.discussion)
 - setting local workflow policy
 - lots of ZMI stuff

In order to protect the control panel overview page, I converted it into a
browser view (well, I used the existing one that Hanno had started).
plone_control_panel is kept as a skin layer template that pulls in the browser
view, for backwards-compatibility. The group details form got a similar
treatment.

One particular concern was to make sure that SiteAdmins can have access to mange
users and groups without risk of them escalating themselves to have Manager
privileges. To achieve this, I made sure that SiteAdmins do not get the general
"Manage users" permission which protects a number of methods of
user-management-related tools. SiteAdmins *do* get access to the Plone users and
groups control panel and related forms, which I updated and tested to make sure
that:

 - non-Managers cannot add or remove the Manager role to users or groups
 - non-Managers cannot add or remove users or groups with the Manager role (or
   trigger a password reset for them)
 - non-Managers cannot add users to or remove them from groups with the Manager
   role

I did not tackle the problem of how to provide for role delegation in a more
general manner within the Users & Groups control panels. This is because I could
think of several ways to approach the problem and was unclear how to proceed,
and also because it would have distracted from the main goal of adding the
SiteAdmin role. Someone should submit a PLIP for this in the future, but for now
I decided it would be most expedient to focus on preventing escalation to
Manager.

I added a SiteAdmins group that is created OOTB (and an upgrade step to add it
for existing sites).

I plan to add developer documentation of how to register permissions with
SiteAdmin as a default role, at both
http://plone.org/documentation/manual/plone-community-developer-documentation
and http://plone.org/documentation/manual/upgrade-guide
